# Health-Benefits-of-Red-Chilli-Powder-Shalimars.com
Have you ever heard of an Indian dish prepared without the use of spices? Isn't that a little too blunt? We Indians, after all, adore the distinct flavour and enticing aroma of spices. Red chilli is a popular spice found in every Indian household and adds a flavorful and spicy touch to any meal to which it is added. It is a must-have component in every Indian dish, mostly in powdered form. For all those who enjoy spicy food, the addition of more red chilli powder to the cuisine makes it a treat to eat.  Its spicy flavour isn't the only thing it's known for; red chilli powder also has a slew of health benefits. Capsaicin, the principal bioactive ingredient in red chillies, boosts their flavour and health benefits. We've talked about the health advantages in this blog.  HEALTH BENEFITS OF RED CHILLI POWDER:  Enhances Cognitive Performance:  The iron content of red chilli powder is high. High iron levels boost blood hemoglobin (Hb) production, which enhances brain blood flow. A sufficient supply of oxygen and blood to the brain can improve cognitive capabilities and lower the risk of illnesses such as Alzheimer's disease. It also aids greater learning, problem-solving, reasoning, decision-making and other mental-strengthening activities.  Relieves Nose congestion:  Red chilli powder's antimicrobial and antibacterial characteristics help to remove mucus from the nose and relieve congestion. It also helps to combat sinus infections and keep them away.  Good For Your Heart:  The magic ingredient in red chilli powder, capsaicin, lowers bad cholesterol and platelet aggregation in the blood. This component also helps to prevent blood clots from forming. As a result, it is quite beneficial for maintaining the health of our hearts.  Helps To Keep Your Digestive System In Good Shape:  Red chilli powder significantly enhances gastric juice output, improves digestion, and relieves constipation and gas. It keeps the stomach, digestive tract and intestine healthy by removing dangerous germs.  Aids Weight Loss:  Obesity is a severe health problem that leads to other chronic diseases such as heart disease, and it is on the rise. Capsaicin, a miraculous ingredient found in red chilli powder, is a super way for anyone looking to lose weight quickly. Capsaicin increases fat burning and suppresses hunger. It boosts metabolism and suppresses hunger, both of which aid weight loss. So, if you're looking to lose weight, using red chilli powder for your meals can be a delicious and fiery method to do so.  Beneficial To The Skin And Hair:  Red chilli powder is high in Vitamin C, which not only boosts our immune system but also helps to retain and generate collagen, a protein that is essential for healthy hair and skin. Vitamin A is also present, which helps to keep the hair moist and healthy.  Reduces Inflammation And Discomfort:  Capsaicin, a chemical found in red chillies, has anti-inflammatory and pain-relieving qualities. It attaches to the pain-sensing nerve endings in our bodies, reducing inflammation and suffering. It also makes these pain receptors insensitive to other types of pain, such as acid reflux inflammation.  Helps To Keep Blood Pressure In Check:  Potassium is abundant in red chilli powder. Thus, it relaxes blood vessels and keeps blood pressure in a safe range.  Conclusion:  Now that you're aware of the advantages of red chilli powder, you should also be aware that choosing non-adulterated red chilli powder ensures that you get all of the benefits as well as a fresh taste.  Most probably, now you're probably wondering where you can find such high-quality spices? We've got you covered! With Shalimar's Chef Spices on your side, red chilli powder will be as organic as you want it to be. Visit our website or go to amazon to get your stock updated always.
